# Router---EDA
In this research project, a Networks-on-Chip (NoC) Router will be structured, executed and tested that has It consists of four data input ports (datai1, datai2, datai3, datai4), four data output ports (datao1, datao2, datao3, datao4), four packet available indicators (Wr1, Wr2, Wr3, Wr4), a rclock (Clock), wclock (clock) and a rst (Reset) signal. Network on Chip (NoC) is an on-chip correspondence innovation in which countless handling components and storage blocks are incorporated on a solitary chip. Because of adaptability, versatile nature, well asset. NoCs utilization have gotten mainstream in and has proficiently supplanted SoCs.
Many-core designs permit different applications to run at the same time on a similar chip. These applications communicate with one another by trading messages through the communication infrastructure. NoCs are utilized to help the high correspondence requests of many core designs. They coordinate routers and connections to permit the on-chip interchanges. NoCs give correspondence parallelism high data transfer capacity and seclusion. The normal preparing force and high correspondence data transfer capacity of NoCs structures permit designers to convey many computation intensive functions.

The key part in a NoC is the router. The parameters of a router are significant as they can alter the power consumption and performances. Many NoC router structures have been proposed, for example, TDM router, virtual channel (VC) router and dynamic router. In the sequel, we center around VC router, which is the most used to diminish the communication latency of flows. It is an answer for allocation of communications resources to different flows according to priorities. A VC presents a unidirectional logical connection between two routers multiplexed with other virtual channels over the physical channel. It determines the path of the packet to travel from the source node to the destination node. For routing algorithms, there are some properties which are required for interconnection network such as connectivity and deadlock avoidance. Many routing algorithms have been proposed such as XY, source routing and DyXY.

A Router is made out of a series of buffers to store approaching packets, a switch grid implementing the input/output associations and a control logic, made out of two state machines for each port, one controlling the buffer wire (RX control logic) and the other one is for scheduling/synchronizing the output port (TX control logic). The output port selector, assigns the suitable output buffer, contingent upon the incoming packet destination address. The router uses output and not input queuing, with the alteration that there is a different buffer for each path, which brings about maximum throughput for an additional buffer area penalty, a reasonable performance/area trade off. Every Router in the NoC has an ID register that contains the location/address of the Router. At long last, the priority organizer block chooses between buffered packets that demand a similar output port in round-robin. Moreover, other than the conventional router, a novel router design dependent on a fuzzy logic adaptive routing algorithm was created and introduced in. The proposed routing algorithm chooses the output port of an approaching flit by considering the dynamic traffic and power consumption on neighboring router links.

The building blocks of the router consist of mainly three parts: 1. Registers and demultiplexers 2. FIFO registers and 3. Schedulers.
Since Networks on Chip (NoCs) are a need in present processor design a reasonable picture about the context that every one of the router models needs to exist. There can be more than one type of a router implemented like a FIFO-Based Router, a Crossbar Based Router, and a CDMA Based Router.
The user of CAD tools should be aware of the different methodologies and the associated tools. The right choice will enhance the performances (area, speed and design time) of his particular design. In the Design Entry a language based circuit capture tool is used (for hardware       description languages like VHDL).  In the Design Implementation a Synthesizer is used which is a computer program that automatically performs a translation from one design representation to another or a program that assists a human in making the translation.  Ideally a behavioral description is synthesized to a layout (silicon compiler).  Most current tools transform data path to gate list. In the Design Validation Design Simulation is used to model the response of a system to input stimuli, analog simulation: circuit level; behavioural  level. Digital simulations: circuit level, switch level, logic level, register transfer level, architectural level, behavioural level.

